## 2019-09-03 WRC Meeting
On September 3, 2019 at 15:00 UTC+0, the WCA Regulations Committee (the “WRC”) met for a regular meeting via Jitsi. The meeting was live streamed on YouTube.

* See the meeting agenda [here](https://github.com/thewca/wca-regulations/issues/795).
* See the full video of the meeting [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d0aAf6uvk4w&t=3333s).

Minutes Log PDF: [2019-09-03 WRC Meeting](https://github.com/thewca/wca-regulations/files/3611662/2019-09-03.WRC.meeting.pdf).

## 2020-06-19 WRC Meeting
On June 19, 2019 at 8:00 UTC+0, the WCA Regulations Committee (the “WRC”) met for a private meeting via Google Meets. 

The following members were present at the meeting: Antonio Kam Ho Tung (甘浩東), Iván Brigidano Pérez, Jules Desjardin, Lucas Garron, Oleg Gritsenko, and Pedro Miranda Moreira.

### Temporary Regulations

* We agree that temporary Regulations make sense, because the policy contains recommendations while the Regulations need to be updated to allow certain new mandatory conditions.
* It makes the most sense to use the regular Regulations update process and plan for two releases (one to update, one to repeal).
* To make it simple to see the changes, we are currently leaning towards putting an article at the end of the Regulations. We can reference them inline when it overrides any existing Regulations.
* Ideas the Board asked us to consider:
> * Allowing the competitor to verbally approve the time: yes, we agree this is a good idea for a temporary Reg.
> * Competitor lifting the cover: no, we think this is too likely to lead to incidents. We think the judge and runner should still be the ones to touch the cover, since that also helps minimize the amount of people touching common items throughout the competition (although the competitor still drops the puzzle in the cover at the end).
* We discussed one part where the policy could be stronger: allowing 1 guardian per minor, and no other spectators. Fewer people in the venue is probably the best way to minimize risk, and it can be harder to keep track of the people in the room if there are a significant number of spectators.

## 2020-07-13 WRC Meeting
On July 13, 2020 at 17:30 UTC+0, the WCA Regulations Committee (the “WRC”) met for a private meeting via Google Meets. 

The following members were present at the meeting: Iván Brigidano Pérez and Pedro Miranda Moreira.

The WRC discussed the final details and adjusments required to the proposed Temporary Regulations before sending them over for WCA Staff feedback.

## 2020-07-16 WRC Meeting
On July 16, 2020 at 13:00 UTC+0, the WCA Regulations Committee (the “WRC”) met for a private meeting via Google Meets. 

The following members were present at the meeting: Antonio Kam Ho Tung (甘浩東), Han Wu (吳翰), Iván Brigidano Pérez, Jules Desjardin, Oleg Gritsenko, and Pedro Miranda Moreira.

The WRC discussed the WCA Staff feedback to the proposed Temporary Regulations and decided on what changes should be made to the proposed changes based on this feedback.

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 14:50 UTC+0.